DS210 Project

Yugantar Paryani

Reddit is a platform with thousands of interconnected communities called subreddits. I used Reddit Hyperlink Network dataset from the Stanford Large Network Dataset Collection to detect dense communities of subreddits, identify key broker nodes connecting those dense communities, and then, evaluating sentiment trends within and between communities. 

https://snap.stanford.edu/data/soc-RedditHyperlinks.html

Explanation of the working of the project:
I start with reading the data and creating a directed graph where nodes were subreddits, edges were their interactions, and sentiment scores as their weights. 
In graph.rs: Using petgraph library, create_graph function reads the dataset and creates a directed graph. The inputs are max_edges to limit the number of edges for runtime efficiency and remove_isolated to remove isolated nodes which are not part of communites. The remove_isolated_nodes function removes nodes with no edges from the graph.
In community.rs: the label_propagation function initializes each node with community ID and updates each node’s label to match the most frequent label among its neighbors and outputs a mapping of nodes to their community. The map_community_names function maps each community to the longest subreddit names just to have a meaningful representation instead of numbers. The print_community_sizes function, outputs the size of each community. 
In analysis.rs: the first function, calculate_community_density measure how connected a community is by dividing number of edges by the number of nodes. The analyze_inter_community_links identifies strongest connections between communites and prints the top 10 pairs of communities with more inter-community edges. The identify_brokers_in_densest_communities, looks for nodes that connect to other communites. The sentiment_analysis_intra_community gives sentiment trends within the densest communities and counts the positive and negative links for each community. 
There are tests throughout to test density calculation, label propagation, sentiment analysis, and mapping community names. An empty.tsv and small_dataset.tsv are used for the tests.
In the flow in main.rs is as: creating a graph, detecting communities, mapping community names, printing community sizes, analyzing inter-community links, calculating densities, analyzing densest communites, identifying brokers in densest communities, then performing sentiment analysis for intra-community links, and then, sentiment analysis on a few interesting communites- dogecoin, gaming, and subredditdrama. 

Usefulness of the project:
This project is useful to analyze community and their dynamics. We find communities of different subreddits which means those subreddits and some similarities or shared interests. We can study subreddit behavior and find influential subreddits. We can find which topics or fields act as brokers and connect to different communities or interests. This could be valuable to marketeers to find collaborations. Then, sentiment trends could be useful to reddit moderators to find toxicity or positivity and act accordingly. So, marketing strategists can target dense communities or broker subreddits which are positive for advertising and engagement. 

Real life meaning of the output
The output starts with “Graph created with 8106 nodes and 41455 edges.” after removing isolated nodes. Then, communities are formed which range from very small (2 nodes) to very large (over 5000). The largest community likely represent highly active subreddits with frequent cross-references, like meme subreddits or general interest communities. Dense communites like 5961 show communites with frequent interactions.  Inter-community connections suggest overlap and interaction between communities and show subreddits that serve as bridges between otherwise distinct groups. For instance, a sports-related subreddit may link to a gaming subreddit where users discuss sports video games. Brokers are nodes (subreddits) that connect a community to others, such as “supremeclothing” in the streetwear community or “rally” in the simracing community and these spread information to other groups. As for sentiment analysis, densest communities like “cgwhiskeyreviews” show exclusively positive sentiment within their links, while others like “darknetmarketsnoobs” have a mix of positive and negative interactions. And as for broker nodes, e.g., “dogecoin” and “gaming” reveals their sentiment trends, showing that broker subreddits tend to have both supportive and conflicting views due to their diverse audience. 

Future improvements possible:
So, I could not perfect this and there are several ideas to improve upon on the project. For example, I had to limit the number of nodes due to runtime, but better computers will find much better results. Visualizations was another area I tried but could not do, which would be very convenient to understand so much more. There were timestamps available in the dataset which can be used to look at how community dynamics and brokers change over time. Another thing, I used the longest node name as community name to not complicate the output and as an easy alternative which can be altered with more correct community names. 

